R universe second interview (#475)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2023-02-23-r-universe-stars-2-en/index.md

## Open source

The third part Sébastien talks about is open source. He explains that in the company they dedicate at least one day a week to open-source developments. They understand that the whole company works on open source and that it is important to give back to the community through the development and contribution of R packages. 

ThinkR develops multiple packages for their own needs, and the vast majority of them are open-source. If it is useful for them, it can be useful for others. Indeed, among these packages, you will find tools to help develop documented, tested and maintainable R products: [{fusen}](https://thinkr-open.r-universe.dev/fusen#) to ease the build and the share of prod-ready R packages while staying in a Rmarkdown environment, [{golem}](https://thinkr-open.r-universe.dev/golem#) to structure the build of prod-ready shiny apps, [{attachment}](https://thinkr-open.r-universe.dev/attachment) to help deal with package dependencies or [{checkhelper}](https://thinkr-open.r-universe.dev/checkhelper#) to automate some extra checks before CRAN submission. 

> {{< figure src = "R-universe thinkr-open.png" class = "center" width = "600" alt = "ThinkR R Universe screenshot" caption = "<center><strong>ThinkR R-Universe</strong></center>">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src = "R-universe thinkr-open.png" class = "center" width = "600" alt = "Screenshot of the ThinkR R-universe landing page featuring packages 'checkhelper', 'fusen', 'covrpage', and 'gitlabr'" caption = "<center><strong>ThinkR R-universe</strong></center>">}}
```

> There are other tools in the [ThinkR r-universe](https://thinkr-open.r-universe.dev/) to present the quality of your R work like {gitdown}, {testdown}, tools to help in project management with external tools like {gitlabr}, {togglr}, {todoist}, … It all comes down to providing tools that allow more and more people to build robust, sustainable and maintainable foundations to work with their data, analyze it and share it in an easier way.

Reviewer: Move to above
```suggestion
```

> ## The R Universe experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The R-universe experience
```

> In order to meet the objective of helping its clients in the simplest way possible, the company has reached the R Universe where they can register each of the processes and tools developed in an orderly manner and with useful information. In the video included in this article you can see an example of how Sébastien and ThinkR see themselves in R-universe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to meet the objective of helping their clients in the simplest way possible, ThinkR uses the R-universe to list each of the tools they have developed in an orderly manner and with useful information. In the video interview included in this article you can see an example of how Sébastien and ThinkR see themselves in the R-universe.
```

> ThinkR found in R-universe a flexible platform to publish and generate the installers of all its packages. This functionality makes it easier for its customers to access and use the last versions of its packages. Clients can install packages in the way they already know, being transparent on the origin, and reducing the limitations of direct GitHub installations.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ThinkR found in the R-universe a flexible platform to publish and generate the installers of all their packages. This functionality makes it easier for their clients and others to access and use the latest package versions. Package origins are transparent and they have avoided the limitations of direct GitHub installations.  
```

> It also facilitates the update and availability of these packages because R-universe does not have strict and time-bound change and update policies, as in CRAN, for example.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also facilitates the update and availability of these packages because R-universe does not have strict and time-bound change and update policies.  
```

> Finally, they find useful the functionality to generate the vignettes and make them available in the package space of the R-universe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, they find the ability to generate vignettes and make them available in the R-universe useful.
```
